---
layout: post
title: API Tips
categories: apis
author: Eric Fung
summary: Learn about naming conventions, debugging and other common issues regarding our APIs.
---

## Event and Property Names/Renaming

You do **not** have to predefine events or properties in the KISSmetrics website. Simply start passing them in and they will be available within your reports within 1-3 hours. Both event and property names are case insensitive. So setting the property `foo` is the same as the property `Foo`. If this is a new property or event KISSmetrics will try to come up with a good display name using simple replacement and capitalization. So your property `shirt_color` will be displayed as `Shirt color` within the KISSmetrics reports. You can edit the displayed name by clicking the **Edit Site** button in the sidebar under your [site settings][site-settings] and clicking on the "Events" tab. 

We recommend using descriptive event names as they will make more sense when you pull up your reports. So instead of `sent_inv` we recommend `Sent Invite`. We also suggest you name your events as past-tense verbs. So instead of naming an event `Homepage` we recommend something like `Viewed Homepage`. This will make your reports more readable in KISSmetrics. You can always edit these names later.

No matter what the display name is it is **very important** that you use the same name within your code consistently. So if for example you later decide you want to call the property `T-Shirt Color` in your reports you should change this name from within the KISSmetrics website (by clicking the **Edit Site** button in the sidebar under your [site settings][site-settings] and clicking on the "Events" tab). However, in your code you would still use `shirt_color`. If you change your code to `tshirt_color`, KISSmetrics will think it is a new property, which is probably not what you want.

## Data Types

KISSmetrics determines the type of property based on the value, not on the data type. So if you pass in a string `"123"`, KISSmetrics will treat that as the integer `123`
Do not use currency symbols or other non-numeric characters when passing in numeric data. KISSmetrics will treat `"$100"` as the string `"$100"`, not the integer `100`. Likewise with `"100 USD"`. Most likely you'll want KISSmetrics to treat such a value as a number so you'll want to pass in just the numeric values (so just `100` or `"100"`).

## Other

Please see our FAQ for other common questions.

[site-settings]: /misc/site-settings