---
layout: post
title: URL API
categories: apis
author: Eric Fung
summary: The URL API is used to tag links that point to your site.
---
The URL API is used to tag links that point to your site. Our customers use this feature to tag links for different campaigns: ad, email, and Twitter campaigns. In a nutshell, when a visitor comes to your site via one of these tagged URLs, our JavaScript Library scans the URL for special parameters and...

1. Records an event,
2. Sets the visitor's identity, and/or
3. Sets properties.

## Preparation

For the URL API to work, the page you link to should have the JavaScript Library installed, and you should have *Tagged URLs* enabled in your [site settings][site-settings] (it's on by default). 

### Example

An example of a tagged URL looks like this. Assume this is a link in an email campaign:

    http://yoursite.com/landing?kme=Clicked+Email+Campaign&
      kmi=user%40domain.com&km_variation=red+button.

When someone clicks that link, the event `Clicked Email Campaign` will be recorded for the user `user@domain.com` with the property `variation` set to `red button`.

*Note: `@` is [URL-encoded][encoding] as `%40` to safely send the symbol as part of a URL.*

## URL Builder

Here is a form to help you quickly build URLs. The URL field is the only required field. Events, identities, and properties are all optional, depending on how much KISSmetrics information this particular URL will provide.

See the next section "[How It Works](#how-it-works)" for several examples.

<form id="url-builder-form">
  <fieldset>
    <p>
      <label>Enter your URL <em class="required">(required)</em><span class="error-message" style="display: none"> - Please enter a URL</span></label>
      <input type="text" name="base-url" id="base-url" />
      <span class="note">e.g. http://yoursite.com, http://blog.yoursite.com, http://yoursite.com/?gclid=abc123</span>
    </p>
  </fieldset>
  <fieldset>
    <p>
      <label>Enter a name for an event <em class="optional">(optional)</em></label>
      <input type="text" name="event-name" id="event-name" />
      <span class="note">e.g. Clicked E-mail Link, Clicked Link, Clicked URL</span>
    </p>
    <p>
      <label>Enter an identity associated with whoever is clicking this URL <em class="optional">(optional)</em></label>
      <input type="text" name="event-identity" id="event-identity" />
      <span class="note">e.g. bob@bob.com, tim@apple.com, john.adams</span>
      <span class="note">If you are using a mass-mailer, chances are your platform provides variables for substituting in the recipient's email address (ie. "{recipient.email}"). This saves you from hard-coding an identity into each individual URL. Note that this URL builder does work in URL-encoding any symbols, so if your platform's variable contains symbols (like the curly braces in "{recipient.email}"), then leave them out of the form but see the Identities section below for how to add it back as a _kmi parameter.</span>
    </p>
  </fieldset>
  <fieldset class="additional-props">
    <p>Enter any additional properties that you want associated with this event <em class="optional">(optional)</em></p>
    <p class="prop-fieldset">
      <span class="form-col">
        <label>Property name</label>
        <input type="text" />
        <span class="note">e.g. Link, URL, Jan-17 Email Campaign</span>
      </span>
      <span class="form-col">
        <label>Property value<span class="error-message" style="display: none"> - Please enter a value</span></label>
        <input type="text" />
        <span class="note">e.g. Link 1, Link 2, small button, simple variation</span>
      </span>
    </p>
    <p><a href="#" id="add-another-property">+ Add another property</a></p>
  </fieldset>
  
  <p class="submit-button"><input type="submit" value="Generate URL" /></p>
</form>

Again, the URL is the only required field. You can create URLs to trigger an event without properties, or to *only* set the visitor's identity, or to *only* set properties, or to trigger an event with properties, and so on.

All of the possible combinations are here:

* URL + event only
* URL + event + identity
* URL + event + identity + properties
* URL + identity only
* URL + identity + properties
* URL + properties only

## How It Works

### Events

If your URL includes the parameter `kme` KISSmetrics will record an event with the value of that parameter. Anyone who goes to the following URL:

    http://yoursite.com/signup?kme=Facebook+Ad

will get the event `Facebook Ad` recorded.

### Identities

You can also pass in an identity by adding a `kmi` parameter. This lets you identify people coming from email messages using the user's email address. So you might have:

    http://yoursite.com/signup?kme=Clicked+E-mail+Link&kmi=bob%40bob.com

This will record the event `Clicked E-mail` for user `bob@bob.com`. (`@` is [URL-encoded][encoding] as `%40` to safely send the symbol as part of a URL.)

Please note that **anyone** who clicks on that link (or visits that URL) will be identified as `bob@bob.com`. It's **not** a good idea to include the identity when you make the URL public (when more than one person has access to it). 

If you don't know who might end up clicking the URL, you can leave off the `kmi` parameter and let our JavaScript Library handle assigning identities to new and returning users.

#### Example with Mass-mailers

From the example above, we mentioned that your mass-mailer may provide a variable for substituting in the recipient's email address, something like `{recipient.email}`. If so, you can build out the URL like this:

    http://yoursite.com/signup?kme=Clicked+E-mail+Link&kmi={recipient.email}

So that the mailer will substitute in the real email address for each link generated:

    http://yoursite.com/signup?kme=Clicked+E-mail+Link&kmi=bob%40bob.com
    http://yoursite.com/signup?kme=Clicked+E-mail+Link&kmi=carl%40carl.com

### Properties

Any URL parameter with the prefix `km_` will be set as a property for the user. So if you have three different links in an email that all point to `http://test.com/offer`, you can differentiate which link was most effective by setting up a property to record exactly which link was used. For example:

    http://test.com/offer?kme=Clicked+Link&kmi=john.smith&km_Link+Location=top
    http://test.com/offer?kme=Clicked+Link&kmi=john.smith&km_Link+Location=middle
    http://test.com/offer?kme=Clicked+Link&kmi=john.smith&km_Link+Location=bottom
  
All three links will record the event `Clicked Link` for the user `john.smith` but each will set the same property `Link Location` to different values (`top`, `middle`, or `bottom`). This lets you report on all the people who `Clicked Link` and segment this population by which `Link Location` was used.

[site-settings]: https://www.kissmetrics.com/product.js_settings
[encoding]: http://www.w3schools.com/tags/ref_urlencode.asp