---
layout: post
title: CallRail
categories: integrations
summary: Import data from CallRail into Kissmetrics.
---
* Table of Contents
{:toc}
* * *

[CallRail][callrail] provides trackable phone numbers for your marketing campaigns. Imagine this scenario:

*You plant unique phone numbers on each of your Google ads and landing pages. Each number forwards to your sales team.*

With CallRail, you can find out:

* Which phone conversation came from which ad, which traffic source, and which keyword?
* Who on your team picked up the phone and what was the conversation?

With CallRail **AND** Kissmetrics, you can connect the dots between phones calls, website activity, email opens/clicks, mobile app activity, etc. Kissmetrics reports will let you answer:

* How do your callers interact with your website after the call?
* If deals aren't closed over the phone, does the person eventually buy through your website, without contacting your sales team?
* How much lifetime revenue comes from people who called at some point vs. those who have never called?

# Demonstration Video

<div id="wistia_nbbk71q98e" class="wistia_embed wistia-embed" data-video-width="640" data-video-height="400">
</div>

## Setup

1. Within your CallRail account, visit the integration page for Kissmetrics.
2. Enter your Kissmetrics API key.
3. Watch as information from phone calls is recorded in Kissmetrics.

## Integration Details

Event Name | Properties | Identity
-----------| ---------- | --------
`Called In` | `Customer phone number`: phone number of person dialing in | Phone number (eg. `+18887675477`)
    | `Call recording`: a URL that links to the recording of the phone call
    | `Call duration`: duration of the call in seconds
    | `Call tracking number`: the CallRail number that the caller dials
    | `Call answered`: the value of this property will be True or False
    | `Customer ID`: phone number of person dialing in (eg. `+18887675477`)

#### Frequency of Import

* Once each call has been logged in CallRail, data for it is immediately sent to Kissmetrics.

## Example Of A Call Appearing In Kissmetrics Live

**+18887675477** did an event: **Called in** which has properties

* **Customer phone number**: +18887675477
* **Call recording**: app.callrail.com/calls/123456789/recording/h283yr839v0fc
* **Call duration**: 289
* **Call tracking number**: +14159996666
* **Call answered**: True
* **Customer ID**: +18887675477

## Aliasing Phone Numbers to Anonymous IDs

When a person visits a webpage with the Kissmetrics tracking code block installed, Kissmetrics automatically sets a unique anonymous ID to the person (e.g. zaBWFYwcDWJZlQV1DVFtg2I96s8=) as a value for the property, Customer ID. When that person calls a CallRail-associated phone number on the website, CallRail will set the caller's phone number (e.g. +18882345678) as another value for the property, Customer ID, and Kissmetrics will alias the phone number to the anonymous ID. This is how Kissmetrics knows that the phone call was tied to that website visitor and all of that visitor's actions.

[callrail]: http://callrail.com/
[callcode]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_country_calling_codes
