---
layout: post
title: Sending Data with Cron
categories: apis
summary: Our Ruby and PHP libraries allow you to record events to a log, and then periodically push these logs to our tracking servers asynchronously. Here is how to set up these server-side libraries to work with `cron`.
---
* Table of Contents
{:toc}
* * *

Because the default mode of KISSmetrics sends a request to our tracking servers every time you record data, any slow connection between our servers and your servers could result in your site being adversely affected. Therefore we have a provided a mode that runs in the background via cron. You might also consider looking at our [3rd-party APIs][other].

## Usage
The cron mode writes all requests to a log for later processing instead . It does require a little more set up on your end, but protects your site in the unlikely event that the KISSmetrics tracking servers are down, unreachable or slow to respond. To use this mode first call init with the appropriate args. Here is an example using the Ruby Library:

### Ruby

{% highlight ruby %}
KM.init("this is your key",
  :log_dir => '/var/logs/km/',
  :use_cron => true,
  :to_stderr => true)
{% endhighlight %}

### PHP

{% highlight php %}
<?php
 KM::init("this is your key", array(
  'log_dir' => '/var/logs/km/',
  'use_cron' => true,
  'to_stderr' => true))
?>
{% endhighlight %}

## Enabling the Cron Job

As logs will not automatically be uploaded to KISSmetrics, it needs to be handled by some external service. A suitable method may be a simple cronjob. The crontab line below shows a cronjob which will upload all the events every five minutes. It is OK to have multiple processes uploading files at the same time. The Ruby Library and PHP Library takes care of not uploading duplicate data.

**Note**: We are passing in the same `log_dir` that we set above.

### Ruby
    */5 * * * * /usr/bin/ruby /km-install-dir/bin/km_send

### PHP

    */5 * * * * /usr/bin/php /km-install-dir/km.php "your key" /var/logs/km

[other]: /apis/other