---
layout: post
title: Stripe
categories: integrations
author: Eric Fung
summary: Import your existing Stripe transaction data into KISSmetrics.
---
If you have been using [Stripe][stripe] to track [**subscriptions**][subscriptions], you can now import event data about the people who purchased or refunded.

## Integration Details

Event Name | Properties | Identity
-----------| ---------- | --------
`Subscription Billed` | `Subscription Billing Amount`: (positive transaction amount) | (See Integration Notes below)
        | `Subscription Billing Length`: (number of months until the next billing period) |
        | `Subscription Plan Level`: (plan type of the customer) |

### Integration Notes

* This integration is designed for ***subscriptions***, so we refer to [Invoices][stripe-invoice], rather than [Charges][stripe-charge].
* The date of the `Subscription Billed` event is marked as the date of the *Invoice*, rather than the Charge.
* [Customers][stripe-customer] are detected on the invoice.
  * If we find a returning customer, we *identify* them with their email address (eg. `victor@huge-success.net`).
  * If the invoice contains a non-recurring customer, we *identify* them with their Stripe Customer ID (eg. `cus_2bP1AOakZoHGrz`).

### Known Shortcomings

#### 1. Multiple Subscriptions

A customer can have multiple subscriptions. We are currently tracking only the **first** subscription, as told by the [Stripe Invoice API][stripe-invoice]. This is fine for people with just one subscription, but any other subscriptions are ignored.

#### 2. Proration

Stripe allows customer subscriptions to be prorated. When we step through the invoices, we look up all the subscriptions that belong to the account, and insert the *subscription* amount into our system (rather than the *charged/invoice* amount). If the customer is prorated, this will not be the accurate number; although the subscription amount is correct, the amount of the invoice is less than the subscription amount. These will throw off our MRR report.

#### 3. Subscriptions with One-Time Purchases

The "proration" problem can't be handled by using the invoice amount. A user can have multiple subscriptions and can also be charged one-time fees. These would be different "line items" on the invoice, with their own billing amounts. All of these subscriptions and billing amounts are totalled and applied to the invoice total - which would not accurately reflect the subscription amount.

#### 4. We Don't Ever Revisit Stripe Invoices

If an invoice is created for a customer and the charge doesn't go through, Stripe marks the invoice as not paid. We process these invoices **once**. This works fine when customers pay on time, but if someone is a day late with their payment (insufficient funds or have to put a new card on file), we never go back to process the old invoice. Stripe doesn't create a new invoice; they attempt to charge again and update the original invoice, by which point our integration has moved to processing present invoices.

#### 5. Add Tracking for Other Subscription Events

Our [SaaS Revenue Report][saas-rr] encourages you to track upgrade and downgrade events. However, our Stripe integration ***does not automatically record the following events***, and you should track them manually if you plan to make the most of our SaaS Revenue Report:

* `Subscription Upgraded`
* `Subscription Downgraded`
* `Subscription Canceled`, {`Subscription Cancelation Reason`}

## Setup

<a name="look-up-your-stripe-api-key"></a>
### Look Up Your Stripe API Key

1. While logged into your [Stripe account][stripekey], go to `Your Account` -> `Account Settings` -> `API Keys` and copy your `Live Secret Key`.

2. Now let's add this API key to your KISSmetrics account in the next step.

### Register the API Key with KISSmetrics

1. Navigate to the [External Data sync][external-data] area under Settings.
2. Click **Add Billing Data from Stripe**
3. Enter your API Key from above.
4. That's it! You can come back to this page and check the status of the import.

[external-data]: https://app.kissmetrics.com/external_data
[mapping]: https://app.kissmetrics.com/mapping
[saas-rr]: /best-practices/saas-revenue-essentials.html

[stripe]: https://stripe.com/
[subscriptions]: https://stripe.com/docs/subscriptions
[stripekey]: https://manage.stripe.com/account/apikeys
[stripe-customer]: https://stripe.com/docs/api#customers
[stripe-charge]: https://stripe.com/docs/api#charges
[stripe-invoice]: https://stripe.com/docs/api#invoices