---
layout: post
categories: apis
title: "PHP Library"
tags: []
author: Eric Fung
summary: Information about our PHP library.
permalink: /apis/php/index.html
---
Our PHP Library has the basic functionality laid out in our [API specifications][specs]. It allows you to record events, set properties and alias users. However, you might miss these features from our JavaScript library:

* No built-in mechanisms for generating and saving identities for your users
* No built-in mechanisms for automatically tying together *anonymous* and *named* identities. This can still be done manually with the `alias` API call - please refer to [our guide for managing identities][identity].
* No built-in mechanisms for running A/B tests
* No automatic triggering of Events (such as detecting Search Engine traffic)

For these reasons we recommend our JavaScript Library to our users, and to use the PHP Library for recording events that occur server-side (account Upgrades may be an example of one such event). You might also consider looking at [other APIs][other] our customers have created.

## Setup

You can download a copy of the API from:

[http://github.com/kissmetrics/KISSmetrics][php]

You will need your API key which you can find in your [site settings][site-settings].

## Usage

Before calling any of the common methods you **must** call `KM::init` with a valid API key:

    KM::init(string $KM_KEY [, array $options])

The available options are:

* `log_dir` - sets the logging directory. Default is `'/tmp'`
* `use_cron` - toggles whether to send data directly to KISSmetrics, or log to a file and send in the background via cron (see [@apis/cron] for more information). Default is `false`, which means data is sent directly to KISSmetrics and cron is not required, however is is **recommended**.
* `to_stderr` - allows toggling of printing output to `stderr`. Default is `true`.

Example:

    KM::init("this is your key", array(
      'log_dir' => '/var/logs/kissmetrics/'
    ));
    
## Example Calls

    <?php
      KM::identify('bob@bob.com');
      KM::record('Viewed Homepage');
      KM::record('Signed Up', array('Plan' => 'Pro', 'Amount' => 99.95));
      KM::record('Signed Up', array('_d' => 1, '_t' => 1234567890));
      KM::set(array('gender'=>'male'));
      KM::alias('bob', 'bob@bob.com');

## Troubleshooting

If you were watching for the events in [KISSmetrics Live][live] and did not see them, it helps to review what our library logged. In the log directory, you may see these files:

* `kissmetrics_error.log`
* `kissmetrics_query.log`
* `kissmetrics_sending.log`

If you contact support to troubleshoot, please refer to the contents of these files, if possible.

{% include summaries/php_summary.html %}

[specs]: /apis/specifications
[identity]: /getting-started/understanding-identities
[other]: /apis/other
[live]: /tools/live
[site-settings]:https://www.kissmetrics.com/settings
[php]: http://github.com/kissmetrics/KISSmetrics